{"Body": "Q1: Ronan, you are running to be the Editor of a newspaper. Yet, your manifesto was designed incorrectly and so folds out the wrong way. Should the voters be concerned about this?\n\nQ2: Your mention that you have an editorial team lined up and ready to go should you win the election. Will you name them? Is this not just 'jobs for the boys'? Is it unfair to other students who may be interested in editorial positions that you have made decisions in this area already?\n\nQ3: I am cheating a little bit with this question, because I promised I would base the questions in this series of posts solely on the commitments made in each candidate's manifesto. But I can't resist asking this - at Alastair Campbell's talk in the GMB this morning, he asked for a show of hands between those in the audience who would prefer to go into politics versus those who would prefer to work in the media. Which did you put up your hand for?\n\nQ4: You mention that every Communications Officer says that they want to bring the SU closer to students, yet most of them fail to do this when elected. Why are you different? And where do you think the current Communications Officer has failed (you can talk about where he has succeeded as well, if you like)? NOTE TO DEAR EDITOR: I don't think you have any failings. I think you are perfect in every way.", "Imageurl": "Q1: Ronan, you are running to be the Editor of a newspaper. Yet, your manifesto was designed incorrectly and so folds out the wrong way. Should the voters be concerned about this?\n\nQ2: Your mention that you have an editorial team lined up and ready to go should you win the election. Will you name them? Is this not just 'jobs for the boys'? Is it unfair to other students who may be interested in editorial positions that you have made decisions in this area already?\n\nQ3: I am cheating a little bit with this question, because I promised I would base the questions in this series of posts solely on the commitments made in each candidate's manifesto. But I can't resist asking this - at Alastair Campbell's talk in the GMB this morning, he asked for a show of hands between those in the audience who would prefer to go into politics versus those who would prefer to work in the media. Which did you put up your hand for?\n\nQ4: You mention that every Communications Officer says that they want to bring the SU closer to students, yet most of them fail to do this when elected. Why are you different? And where do you think the current Communications Officer has failed (you can talk about where he has succeeded as well, if you like)? NOTE TO DEAR EDITOR: I don't think you have any failings. I think you are perfect in every way.", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "1067", "Heading": "Four Questions: Ronan Costello (Communications)"}