{"Body": "Alannah Horne-\n\nTo J1 or not to J1? A common dilemma that will preoccupy many students at this time of year as plans for the summer are being drawn up and put into motion. The problem is, it does require a fair amount of effort. So if you are seriously lacking in time, money or motivation, it can be a hard one to pull off. However, if you have come to the realisation that you really can&rsquo;t face yet another summer trying to enjoy yourself in Ireland, I would wholeheartedly recommend the experience. It made for the best summer of my life, despite the fact that there were complications and difficulties and I am still in debt through loans and credit cards. In fact, I am going to do it all again this summer. First, you need to decide where you want to go. The USA is a big place. The most popular destinations include New York, California, Boston, Chicago, Florida and Hawaii. West Coast is definitely more laid back. If you are looking for sun, sea and like the idea of experiencing life in a frat house &ndash; San Diego, San Francisco, Santa Monica and the likes are where it&rsquo;s at. New York is where I spent three months last summer. It&rsquo;s humid, hot, insanely busy and intense. If you think you can handle it, you will fall in love.\n\nAfter carrying out some research and conferring with friends, it&rsquo;s time to book. And the sooner the better to get the best deal. You have to book your flights with the organisation you choose, this is how they make their profit and it is mandatory to secure your visa. Expect flights to be around &euro;600+ depending on destination and flying direct or not. When you take into account visa fee, insurance, processing and US embassy fee, we&rsquo;re talking approximately &euro;1000. It is hard to avoid these costs; if you have your own insurance for example, and don&rsquo;t want to buy any, the visa price will be raised. Even if you only have to put down a deposit, the rest will be due shortly after so funds need to be raised quickly. After booking, you will get an Embassy interview date. There are several documents you will need for this. I seriously suggest a reliable folder at this point. USIT or the company you book with will send you out your DS-2019 (an official document allowing students to work legally in the US) and your SEVIS receipt. You will also need a valid passport, a bank draft for $140 to the US Embassy, a 2x2 photo (available from fujifilm stores), proof of study from your college and the DS-160 form. The DS-160 is filled out online and is a lengthy process. Search the website of your company for a guide to completing it, as it requires info you don&rsquo;t have, such as sponsor addresses. The online session will time out if you don&rsquo;t do it promptly. Be careful to get every section right as you will be sent away from your interview, as I learned last year, if even one section is incorrect. The interview itself does not involve any actual interviewing; it is mainly processing documentation. CIEE is the official J1 US sponsor, before going they require you to complete a rather entertaining online orientation process. Once you arrive in the US, you MUST register your address and work details with SEVIS to avoid being sent home. After 10 days in the country you can apply for a social security card. Most employers need this before you can begin work. You can find your local office online and just show up with that folder. I would recommend making several photocopies of everything before going and keeping them in various locations to avoid problems.\n\nIf you don&rsquo;t have a job going over you are expected to bring another $950, or $475 with a job. It sounds like a lot altogether, but beg, borrow or steal; it will be worth it. I secured it through a good old student loan. The most important thing is organising accommodation before arriving, at least for the first month or two. It&rsquo;s a good idea to look into student quarters in universities, but these do fill up fast. Sublet.com can be very useful and is how I found a reasonable, modern apartment on the Upper East Side last summer. This time I am seeking a downtown location. If going to NYC, Brooklyn and Astoria in Queens are generally cheaper and well serviced by the subway. The earlier you arrive, the more likely you are to secure work. I landed in JFK with no job but a lot of &lsquo;resumes&rsquo;. I spent two week pounding pavements, desperately making up experience and handing out resumes. Hit up cafes, bars and restaurants for the best pay/tips. Retail can be handy but does not pay as well. Restaurants also usually mean free food, which is how I avoided most deficiency diseases. Don&rsquo;t rely on Irish bars, they are usually bombarded with Irish students so unless you know someone, the more unexpected places can be more advantageous. Play up the Irish legacy &ndash; it will get you far. Leprechauns do exist, you do know Michael from Mayo and obviosuly always have c\u00fapla focal to hand.\n\nIf you are not 21, get yourself a fake id or don&rsquo;t bother going if you want to enjoy the nightlife. Altered provisional and regular drivers licenses are best. The easiest way to gain entrance into the exclusive clubs of the moment and enjoy free drink is to make friends with a promoter. Ask around, make contacts, don&rsquo;t be shy. There are no 10pm liquor store or 2.30am club closing hours here. Something I didn&rsquo;t get around to last year but plan on doing this time, is travelling near the end of the summer. You can arrange stop over flight dates so you can visit different cities. I booked my J1 on my own and went with no job. A friend decided to come too and I made so many more there. I was completely of the attitude that it would all work out. I still believe that if you really want it to and if you&rsquo;re smart about it, it will. This is a working holiday; work hard to play hard has never rung so true. And if you ever find yourself feeling homesick, just remember why you left in the first place!", "Imageurl": "1890", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "1888", "Heading": "A New York Minute"}