{"Body": "Jack Leahy-\n\nAnother week, another musical in DU players. This time round, a  cohort of toga-clad lads and ladies took on Owen Murphy-directed  Hercules for six nights.\n\nMy first ever visit to Players' Theatre came on the final night,  finally persuaded by the unavoidable hype which had built up around  campus as some fantastic anecdotal reviews came my way. I have to admit  that, despite the presence of some good friends on stage, I wish I had  waited a little longer before losing my Players' virginity. Well, not  really, but it's the least graphic 'virginity' metaphor I could muster  and who knows, kids could read this.\n\nWhat Murphy managed with Hercules is admirable in a way; it was a  good night&rsquo;s entertainment illuminated by superlative individual  performances from D\u00f3nal \u00d3 Cinn\u00e9ide as protagonist Hercules, Iain Mullins  as underworld reagent Haedes, and Richard Shaffrey as the light-hearted  but assertive Zeus. Their efforts were matched if not bettered by the  lead chorus of muses&mdash;a gaggle of sassy, flamboyant divas with some of  the best voices I've heard in quite a while.\nBut I'll get to that later, as negatives are much more fun.\n\nAt the start we are introduced to the minor male characters, the  majority of whom are overbearingly camp. I mean, camp is good; very  often it's charming, endearing, and undeniably hilarious. But too much  of it, the likes of which Murphy's minor characters delivered with  gratuity, quickly becomes unnecessary. Then irritating. Then  infuriating. Then just a dull noise. Yes, you like Rihanna. We get it.\n\nAs we meet the more major characters, we get a very interesting  collection of accents; some are American, some are Irish, and two are  Italian, although the latter were pretty hilarious despite featuring in a  Greek setting for whatever unspecified reason. Like the in-your-face  flamboyancy of the camp characters, the American accents seemed forced  and before too long bore into your very skull. When the muses did it, it  added a lovable, hyperbolic sass to their performance and entertained  us (&ldquo;Yeah he looking mighty fine today!&rdquo; and the like), but there was no  such effect achieved by making some of the actors communicate in such a  tongue.\n\nThe most aurally displeasing performance award will have to be  shared. Stephen and Valery Lynch &mdash;whose roles can best be defined as  Haedes' bitches&mdash;play a pair of bizarre creatures. In a classical Greek  world of togae, tunicae (yeah, I did Latin for the Leaving Cert so I'll  damn well inflect my first declension nouns properly) and sandals. They  wear shirts, braces, ties, and knee-socks, and don't quite fit in as  characters.\n\nWhile they pull off the requirements of the role with yet  more flamboyancy, they are a bit over the top, announcing themselves  with a very loud nasal sound which by the end tolls ominously like a  death-bell. Spotting a recurring theme yet? Why Haedes needs childishly  face-painted aides who act so intolerably and generically stupid is a  good question.\nLastly, this show once again suffered from the classic Players'  pitfall: a few too many in-jokes. For example, at the start of the  second act the female Lynch  strays a good bit out of context to  declare something along the lines of 'you're a slut, like Laura the  choreographer! Oh, first row know what I'm talking about!' Way to  disengage the majority of your audience, guys.\n\nGeneral aural displeasure aside, there are a number of positives  which, glass-half-full now firmly shattered, I can now get my teeth  into. One actor who manages to find a golden mean between camp and  tolerable is Mullins, whose speech is pristine and defines him as the  bad guy as well as his generally dark demeanour does. His evil is  comedic but has a tangible presence &ndash; he is an omen hanging over  Hercules throughout while offering a bit of light relief here and there.\nShaffrey has great presence in his role as Hercules' natural father  Zeus, commanding the entire stage whenever he's on it; which, by the  way, is not nearly enough. His role is somewhat limited, but the  effortless gusto with which he delivered his lines added a Zeusian  dimension to the character ironically not afforded to him by the script.  Not to mention his charming off-the-cuff humour which, like Mullins,  kept the show the right measure of light-hearted throughout.\nThe title character, played by Junior Freshman \u00d3 Cinn\u00e9ide, fittingly  deserves the most praise as far as individual performances are  concerned. Given the ill-considered pace of the exposition of the  narrative, Hercules effectively had to grow up, get scarred for life by  social exclusion, receive life-changing news, have a moral epiphany and  act on it within the space of less than five minutes. \u00d3 Cinn\u00e9ide's  biggest achievement is endowing the main character with a boyish charm  and lovable innocence which alerts the audience to his plight despite  the script which would have him rush through the aforementioned motions  to the meatier complication and climax.\n\nThe enduring effect of this is that we cheered for him throughout and  &ndash; literally &ndash; sat at the edge of our seats as he went in for the kiss  with Meg, the femme-fatale turned true loved played by Amanda Martin. \u00d3  Cinn\u00e9ide's vocal performance was sound if a tad unspectacular, but he  delivered in a style which further tugged on our already surrendering  heartstrings.\n\nJack Toner's performance as Phil also deserves praise, despite Phil's  generic character which is very stereotypically American for my  European taste. He assumes the role of a retired 'coach' persuaded back  to his work of training heroes because he 'believes in this kid'. While  there is not a lot to like or dislike about the character, Toner is a  natural actor with good timing and a strong stage presence.\n\nLast but by no means least are the muses, a collection of about a  dozen very talented young girls whose group performance outshone the  best of the individual performances. Appearing periodically to narrate  or celebrate events in the story of Hercules, the girls really had fun  and made sure we did too. Lines were delivered with unadorned aplomb and  each girl gave a memorable vocal performance in her own right while  engaging in superficial but always funny banter. This is the one area of  the musical in which I truly appreciated the heightened performance  style overdone by many other characters, with Carrie Leger, Orla Dunne,  Laura Lambert and Rachel Ward particularly standing out in a group in  which there was a very high musical standard. They could perhaps have  been near flawless had they spent an extra week together as a few  choreographic errors crept in, but overall they were the show's shining  light.\n\nOn the whole, a very entertaining and clever production featuring an  impressive number of talented individuals who gelled well together,  marred somewhat by a few annoying directorial decisions which would not  have affected the lasting perception so much had they appeared less  frequently. These are minor faults separate to the music and the  excellent performances from the leads and muses so should not take too  much from the final rating, but unfortunately they do.\n\n3.8/5", "Imageurl": "1967", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "1966", "Heading": "Theatre Review-Hercules"}