{"Body": "James Hagan\n\nThe 2011 Annual General Meeting of Trinity&rsquo;s LGBT society took place on Tuesday 15th March at 8pm in the Graduate Student&rsquo;s Union Common Room. David Doyle, a second year Religions and Theology and English Literature student, ran unopposed for the position of auditor and was elected. Stephen Keane, also in second year, was elected treasurer and Aoife Ryan-Christensen became the society&rsquo;s new secretary. A constitutional amendment to remove the requirement for the committee to designate specific committee members to be liaison officers for gay men, lesbians, bisexual people and transgender people was passed on the grounds that in practice it was more organisationally sound to let this happen naturally. Doyle said of the amendment, &ldquo;I was happy the constitutional amendment was passed. I think it was an unnecessary provision in the constitution. I appreciated the argument made for not amending it but ultimately I think that the buddy system that we currently use is enough to suffice and so the provision had become outdated.&rdquo; Tess Thompson, former auditor, and Eoin Silke, former Treasurer, both received &ldquo;Matt the Jap Lifetime Achievement Awards&rdquo; for their commitment to the society throughout their time in college. Turnout for the AGM was over capacity, with many people having to stand in the corridor outside the GSU common room in an effort to experience the events of the evening.\n\nThe AGM comes at the end of a year that has been widely regarded as highly successful for the society and most of the speeches focused on how the society can expand even further in the following year. Ryan-Christensen, in particular, stressed her commitment to making it more politically active in her speech, claiming that the social aspect of the society was strong but that Trinity LGBT needed to help campaign more for gay rights in Ireland. She specifically cited organisations like TENI (Transgender Equality Network Ireland) and lgbtNOISE (a protest group committed to the introduction of gay marriage in Ireland) as groups with which a college society could work to try to further the national interests of LGBT people. Doyle agrees with her, telling The University Times that &ldquo;there is definite scope for the society having a political aspect. We have to a degree this year by getting involved with Amnesty&rsquo;s Mock Marriage and it&rsquo;s definitely something that I think there is room to build on.&rdquo;\n\nHowever, Ryan-Christensen was positive about the academic year 2010/2011 overall and in general it was hard to find critical voices when the past year was discussed. The work of the society throughout the year, specifically the events which ran during Rainbow Week, was celebrated. This speaks very well of Darren O&rsquo;Gorman, Auditor of the society 2010/2011, who was unsuccessful in his bid for Welfare Officer of the Student&rsquo;s Union. Trinity LGBT has started to gain a continuous association with candidates for the sabbatical office. In 2009, the society&rsquo;s then-auditor Cormac Cashman was elected to the office and some of his success was attributed to the commitment members of the LGBT gave to his campaign. Yet over the past two years the society&rsquo;s influence over the election seems to have waned, with Cashman failing to get re-elected in 2010 and O&rsquo;Gorman recently losing out to Louisa Miller. When asked if he would follow his LGBT auditor predecessors in running for the position of Student&rsquo;s Union Welfare Officer, Doyle told The University Times, &ldquo;I have no plans to run for Welfare Officer.&rdquo;", "Imageurl": "James Hagan\n\nThe 2011 Annual General Meeting of Trinity&rsquo;s LGBT society took place on Tuesday 15th March at 8pm in the Graduate Student&rsquo;s Union Common Room. David Doyle, a second year Religions and Theology and English Literature student, ran unopposed for the position of auditor and was elected. Stephen Keane, also in second year, was elected treasurer and Aoife Ryan-Christensen became the society&rsquo;s new secretary. A constitutional amendment to remove the requirement for the committee to designate specific committee members to be liaison officers for gay men, lesbians, bisexual people and transgender people was passed on the grounds that in practice it was more organisationally sound to let this happen naturally. Doyle said of the amendment, &ldquo;I was happy the constitutional amendment was passed. I think it was an unnecessary provision in the constitution. I appreciated the argument made for not amending it but ultimately I think that the buddy system that we currently use is enough to suffice and so the provision had become outdated.&rdquo; Tess Thompson, former auditor, and Eoin Silke, former Treasurer, both received &ldquo;Matt the Jap Lifetime Achievement Awards&rdquo; for their commitment to the society throughout their time in college. Turnout for the AGM was over capacity, with many people having to stand in the corridor outside the GSU common room in an effort to experience the events of the evening.\n\nThe AGM comes at the end of a year that has been widely regarded as highly successful for the society and most of the speeches focused on how the society can expand even further in the following year. Ryan-Christensen, in particular, stressed her commitment to making it more politically active in her speech, claiming that the social aspect of the society was strong but that Trinity LGBT needed to help campaign more for gay rights in Ireland. She specifically cited organisations like TENI (Transgender Equality Network Ireland) and lgbtNOISE (a protest group committed to the introduction of gay marriage in Ireland) as groups with which a college society could work to try to further the national interests of LGBT people. Doyle agrees with her, telling The University Times that &ldquo;there is definite scope for the society having a political aspect. We have to a degree this year by getting involved with Amnesty&rsquo;s Mock Marriage and it&rsquo;s definitely something that I think there is room to build on.&rdquo;\n\nHowever, Ryan-Christensen was positive about the academic year 2010/2011 overall and in general it was hard to find critical voices when the past year was discussed. The work of the society throughout the year, specifically the events which ran during Rainbow Week, was celebrated. This speaks very well of Darren O&rsquo;Gorman, Auditor of the society 2010/2011, who was unsuccessful in his bid for Welfare Officer of the Student&rsquo;s Union. Trinity LGBT has started to gain a continuous association with candidates for the sabbatical office. In 2009, the society&rsquo;s then-auditor Cormac Cashman was elected to the office and some of his success was attributed to the commitment members of the LGBT gave to his campaign. Yet over the past two years the society&rsquo;s influence over the election seems to have waned, with Cashman failing to get re-elected in 2010 and O&rsquo;Gorman recently losing out to Louisa Miller. When asked if he would follow his LGBT auditor predecessors in running for the position of Student&rsquo;s Union Welfare Officer, Doyle told The University Times, &ldquo;I have no plans to run for Welfare Officer.&rdquo;", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "2421", "Heading": "Doyle elected LGBT Auditor for 2011/12"}