{"Body": "<p>A Level&rsquo;s and the Irish Leaving Certificate are both highly important to their respective education systems. Many scholars have excelled in either of these processes and they both respectively provide a highway of opportunity after competition of study at a secondary institution. However, the two processes are quite distinct. The Leaving Certificate seeks to provide skills in a broad range of subjects. Irish, English, Maths and a European Language are not mandatory but are expected. It is commendable that students must take further studies of traditional subjects. It has been reported that future economies will be based on a science/maths &ldquo;smart economy&rdquo; and scholars who have a high knowledge will be at an advantage. Furthermore, students who prosper with other subjects still have the opportunity to fill their timetable with classes such as History, Geography or Music. Thus, at the end of their secondary school career, Leaving Cert students should have a grasp of most areas of study. As a result, well-rounded students will not have shut any doors shut in the face of prospective career pathways.</p>\n<p>The A Level system has a different philosophy. Students are essentially given a carte blanche when selecting subjects to study. The belief is that forcing a subject upon a student can be counterproductive. Instead, if they choose to study a subject, chances are they will like it and will work hard at it. The whole process is designed to point the student in the direction of the course they wish to study at university. Say a student was destined to study Medicine; they wanted to do nothing else. They could select four subjects from the scientific group, most likely; Chemistry, Biology, Physics and Maths. The in-depth analysis, which A Levels requires in order to assure success, will equip the student with an advanced knowledge in their chosen third level subject. In a recent UCAS/CAO tariff comparison, it was stated that a Leaving Certificate is worth 2/3 of an A Level. In light of the often intense competition for places, A level students should be the better candidates for the place. They devoted more time to mastering their scientific skills, instead of pursuing Irish, or some other subject that may not be put to use in the study of medicine. However, this may not be the case in a wider context. Despite this more in-depth study, A Levels students may be at disadvantage; for example, if they decide to terminate their studies of Maths and English at the age of sixteen, they could lack many basic skills needed to hold down a simple job. The doctor who studied scientific subjects, but is treating a foreigner who has no English, is at a disadvantage. Moreover, in the UK, academics have argued that the A Level system is too specific and something more akin to the International Baccalaureate (in other words, a leaving cert) would be more useful.</p>\n<p>The issue is far from straightforward, but with applications for university places increasing, the competition for spaces is at an all time high. Furthermore, in a world where jobs are scarce a much greater emphasis is put on education. Students who have a well-rounded knowledge in most disciplines and can utilise these skills to adapt to any profession possess a key weapon.</p>", "Imageurl": "<p>A Level&rsquo;s and the Irish Leaving Certificate are both highly important to their respective education systems. Many scholars have excelled in either of these processes and they both respectively provide a highway of opportunity after competition of study at a secondary institution. However, the two processes are quite distinct. The Leaving Certificate seeks to provide skills in a broad range of subjects. Irish, English, Maths and a European Language are not mandatory but are expected. It is commendable that students must take further studies of traditional subjects. It has been reported that future economies will be based on a science/maths &ldquo;smart economy&rdquo; and scholars who have a high knowledge will be at an advantage. Furthermore, students who prosper with other subjects still have the opportunity to fill their timetable with classes such as History, Geography or Music. Thus, at the end of their secondary school career, Leaving Cert students should have a grasp of most areas of study. As a result, well-rounded students will not have shut any doors shut in the face of prospective career pathways.</p>\n<p>The A Level system has a different philosophy. Students are essentially given a carte blanche when selecting subjects to study. The belief is that forcing a subject upon a student can be counterproductive. Instead, if they choose to study a subject, chances are they will like it and will work hard at it. The whole process is designed to point the student in the direction of the course they wish to study at university. Say a student was destined to study Medicine; they wanted to do nothing else. They could select four subjects from the scientific group, most likely; Chemistry, Biology, Physics and Maths. The in-depth analysis, which A Levels requires in order to assure success, will equip the student with an advanced knowledge in their chosen third level subject. In a recent UCAS/CAO tariff comparison, it was stated that a Leaving Certificate is worth 2/3 of an A Level. In light of the often intense competition for places, A level students should be the better candidates for the place. They devoted more time to mastering their scientific skills, instead of pursuing Irish, or some other subject that may not be put to use in the study of medicine. However, this may not be the case in a wider context. Despite this more in-depth study, A Levels students may be at disadvantage; for example, if they decide to terminate their studies of Maths and English at the age of sixteen, they could lack many basic skills needed to hold down a simple job. The doctor who studied scientific subjects, but is treating a foreigner who has no English, is at a disadvantage. Moreover, in the UK, academics have argued that the A Level system is too specific and something more akin to the International Baccalaureate (in other words, a leaving cert) would be more useful.</p>\n<p>The issue is far from straightforward, but with applications for university places increasing, the competition for spaces is at an all time high. Furthermore, in a world where jobs are scarce a much greater emphasis is put on education. Students who have a well-rounded knowledge in most disciplines and can utilise these skills to adapt to any profession possess a key weapon.</p>", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "330", "Heading": "School's out"}