{"Body": "<p>A record 106.5 million viewers. 74,059 in attendance. 90 players on the field. Two teams, two coaches, two cities. One dream, one trophy and only one winner. Superbowl XLIV. For the first time in sixteen years the two no.1 seeds from both the AFC and NFC championships clashed on the grandest stage of them all. But the fun did not end there. Add in the fact that opposing each other were undoubtedly the two best quarterbacks of the last few years and you begin to understand why this game of football is now the most watched broadcast in American television history. Two weeks had passed since Brett Favre threw away Minnesota&rsquo;s chance to defeat New Orleans in the NFC championship game. Two weeks had passed since Peyton Manning gave a masterclass in a 30-17 destruction of the New York Jets in Lucas Oil Stadium, Indianapolis. Conducted by Manning, the regular season Most Valuable Player the Indianapolis Colts began as four point favourites. Beginning the season with fourteen straight wins one would have thought that they would be the overwhelming front runner but the New Orleans Saints began the season with their own equally impressive thirteen game winning streak. Commanded by Drew Brees the Saints were the best team in their conference and finally fulfilled their potential by reaching the first Superbowl in franchise history by defeating the Vikings 31-28 in overtime.</p>\n<p>Sun Life stadium in Miami was the setting for this spectacle of American sport. This was the fifth time since it opened for business in 1987 that it has hosted the biggest game in U.S. sports. &lsquo;Superbowl Sunday&rsquo; has long since been one of the most important dates in the North American calendar and it doesn&rsquo;t show any sign of relinquishing that status. Weeks of build up had finally ended when Carrie Underwood led those present in a rendition of the &lsquo;Star Spangled Banner&rsquo;. Enter the two teams. It had been over a decade and a half since he two best teams had battle it out for the Vince Lombardi trophy. This was a truly magnificent occasion, highlighted again by the fact that Emmitt Smith, a Hall of Famer and three time Superbowl winner performed the toin coss. Among all the glitz and glamour you could have been forgiven for thinking that the story began and ended with just the sport. But it didn&rsquo;t. This was bigger than any previous Superbowl. This was the day New Orleans finally re-arrived on the world stage.</p>\n<p>The action began accompanied by the thousands of flash bulbs that have become so common with the opening kick-off when the Colts Pat McAfee kicked the ball 67 yards to the New Orleans 3 yard line. Gathered successfully under little duress Courtney Roby returned the ball 20 yards before he was downed at the 23 to set up the first attack of the game. Both quarterbacks had reached this point in very different circumstances. Drew Brees the Saints maestro, released after a contract dispute with the San Diego Chargers in 2005 had battled back from injuries and lack of form to justify head coach Sean Payton&rsquo;s decision to sign him just two months after he had taken charge of the team. Manning on the other hand has been an institution for over a decade in the NFL. With 10 Pro bowl selections, 7 seasons with 12 or more wins in a row and a Superbowl ring already on his finger from 2007 it was clear who would come out on top if it came down to experience. And that was exactly how it began. The usually unflappable Brees was reckless to begin with, almost searching for the first down on every play and as such the wily, experienced Colts&rsquo; defence forced a hasty three and out receiving possession on their own 27 yard line. Manning&rsquo;s comfort under the spotlight was immediately apparent as he found Dallas Clark with a pass deep right for a gain of 18 yards. With the ball now in midfield it was not a matter of could the Colts score but how many points would they get. Quickly manouvering there way to the Saints 22 yard line Indianapolis were face with a 2nd and 7, ordinarily a routine assignment for a team of such quality. Colts&rsquo; guard Kyle DeVan had other ideas though when he performed a false start incurring a 5 yard penalty, leaving Indy with a 2nd and 12. A seven yard reception from Joseph Addai would have been good enough for a first down originally but left Manning with some work to do and when he failed to convert the 3rd down the ball was placed at the feet of Matt Stover for a 38 yard field goal attempt. The 42 year old struck the ball beautifully, the kick was good, 3-0 Colts. The ball was back in Brees hands, this time on the Saints 26 yard line. Again he looked shaky and a quick three and out was achieved by Indianapolis who now held the ball with 5:12 remaining in the first quarter on their own 4. Cue a Superbowl record tying 96 yard touchdown drive orchestrated by Peyton Manning culminating in a 19 yard catch by Pierre Garcon. Stover kicked the extra point. 10-0 Indy. End of first quarter.</p>\n<p>The game was beginning to follow the script so many had written. The underdog Saints who had fought so bravely to re-emerge after the devastation caused by hurricane Katrina had finally met their match and were being ruthlessly exposed by the professional and efficient Colts. Many who had championed New Orleans&rsquo; cause began to lose faith. Except the players that is. The task they faced was a daunting one however, a comeback from a 10 point deficit would equal the biggest in Superbowl history. Beginning the second quarter at their own 11 yard line Brees drove the Saints to the Indianapolis 22 yard line where he was again foiled but this time instead of being faced with a punt they were within field goal range. Faced with a 46 yard attempt Garrett Hartley had not made a kick from outside 40 years all year. The ball was snapped. The kick again was good, 10-3 Colts, New Orleans on the board. It was vital that they got the score as a comeback from three scores down while not impossible was improbable. The ball was back in Peyton&rsquo;s trusted right arm although this time it wasn&rsquo;t so assured. New Orleans forced an immediate three and out, stopping Indianapolis scoring for the first time and thus regaining possession at their 28 yard line and a chance to level the scores at ten apiece with a touchdown. A six minute drive ensued leaving the Saints confronted with a 3rd and 1 on the Colts&rsquo; goal line. Brees put the ball in the hands of Mike Bell as they drove forward for the six points. No gain. 4th and 1. Surely Sean Payton would take the points and go in to the half time break with a four point deficit? No chance. With the first of what can only be described of a succession of brave calls in the game the Saints head coach decided to go for it. Again a running play was called and the ball was given to Pierre Thomas. He was held up, no gain, no points, New Orleans demoralised. Peyton Manning now had 1:49 and two time-outs to try and add to the 7 point margin separating the sides. Uncharacteristically the Colts went with three straight running plays, failing to secure the first down needed to bring the half time break and gave the Saints a chance to steal some momentum with the ball being placed near the half way line with thirty five seconds to go. It was an opportunity they would not miss as again Hartley showed impressive leg strength with a 44 yard conversion to leave the score at 10-6 to Indianapolis at the interval. The half time entertainment was provided by the legendary British rock band &lsquo;The Who&rsquo;, and it was apt that Pete Townshend displayed his famous &lsquo;Windmill&rsquo; style of guitar playing on stage just as things were beginning to turn around on the pitch.</p>\n<p>The game&rsquo;s defining moment was upon us. Rookie Thomas Morestead lined up to take the kick off which was to be received by the Colts returning team. Not so. In a move that surprised even the kicker himself head coach Sean Payton called for an onside kick which was recovered by the Saints on their 42 yard line giving New Orleans the ball and fresh impetus. A 59 yard drive was finished by 16 yard short pass to Pierre Thomas who broke a couple of tackles before diving into the end zone to give New Orleans the lead. The conversion was successful, 13-10 Saints who were leading for the first time in the match. How would Indianapolis respond? The only way the know how. A 76 yard drive was concluded by a 4 yard Joseph Addai run, Matt Stover adding the extra point, 17-13 Colts and normal order had been resumed. It was up to the Saints to react now. Brees again stormed up the field only to be stopped abruptly on the 29 yard line of Indianapolis causing the field goal unit\n<script src=\"js/tiny_mce/themes/advanced/langs/en.js\" type=\"text/javascript\"></script>\nto enter the field of play once again. Could Garrett Hartley convert a 47 yard attempt and become the first player in Superbowl history to kick three field goals successfully from over 40 yards? Of course he could. 17-16 Colts, with the ball at Indy&rsquo;s 25 yard line the third quarter drew to a close.</p>\n<p>Manning&rsquo;s ball. Fourth quarter of another big game surely it was a formality that he would close it out from here? Again things didn&rsquo;t work according to plan and a 51 yard field goal from Matt Stover was no good giving the Saints advantageous field position and control of the match. Five minutes of playing time had elapsed when Drew Brees found Jermemy Shockey the tall, muscular tight end for a two yard reception and a five point lead. Payton was faced with another big decision. With 5:42 on the clock he could take the 6 point lead and challenge the Colts to outwit his defence and win it with time against them, or in a much riskier move he could attempt a two point conversion and at least secure a chance at overtime for his side. Following the pattern of his earlier moves option two was selected. Brees to Lance Moore. Ball dropped, points lost. Could this be the shift in fortunes that Indianapolis needed? No. Again they were to be foiled as the decision was challenged and referred to the television officials.&nbsp;</p>\n<p>The call was reversed, the Saints now led 24-17 with less than six minutes on the clock. The pressure was on the Colts but who better to deal with it than Peyton Manning a former Superbowl MVP? Things began well for Peyton as he quickly moved his side to within touchdown range just 36 yards from the Saints end zone. Two plays later and he was looking down the barrel at a 3rd and 5 with just over three minutes remaining. Reverting to one of his most trusted plays Manning looked left quickly for Reggie Wayne who had made a quick move to an area which would be enough for the first down if the pass was complete. Enter Tracy Porter the sophomore cornerback who stepped in front and intercepted the ball from the usually impeccable Manning. A 74 yard return with completed kick left New Orleans leading 31-17 with 3:12 on the clock and a mammoth task facing them. Surely this was too much for even Peyton Manning, potentially the greatest quarterback ever. Driving his time to the Saints red zone in under a minute those of a Saints disposition began to look nervously at the clock as the impossible began to look possible.&nbsp;</p>\n<p>With only 3 yards to go Manning threw short right to Pierre Garcon who got tangled with a defender and a penalty was called. Offensive pass interference, 10 yard penalty, 1st and 13. Three quick plays were snuffed out and it was left down to one play, 4th and 5 at the New Orleans goal line. Either this play was successful or the Saints would be World Champions. Manning dropped back and again looked for Reggie Wayne in the end zone, the pass was on target, the ball was in his hands. But he dropped it. The game was over. The Saints win. The Saints win! Five years it had taken for the city to re-emerge. New Orleans was back. Images of thousands on Bourbon Street celebrating their heroes have replaced those of the same street submerged in water. The first time head coach and the quarterback that wasn&rsquo;t wanted had gotten what they craved what the city needed. It was and will be a big boost in the revival of the city as it looks to attract visitors. This writer is proud that the team that he picked to win the Superbowl pre-season has fulfilled its promise and brought a city that was on its knees to the top of tree. This day will never be forgotten in Louisiana and all that remains is one question. Mardi Gras commences in 8 days, interested anyone?</p>", "Imageurl": "<p>A record 106.5 million viewers. 74,059 in attendance. 90 players on the field. Two teams, two coaches, two cities. One dream, one trophy and only one winner. Superbowl XLIV. For the first time in sixteen years the two no.1 seeds from both the AFC and NFC championships clashed on the grandest stage of them all. But the fun did not end there. Add in the fact that opposing each other were undoubtedly the two best quarterbacks of the last few years and you begin to understand why this game of football is now the most watched broadcast in American television history. Two weeks had passed since Brett Favre threw away Minnesota&rsquo;s chance to defeat New Orleans in the NFC championship game. Two weeks had passed since Peyton Manning gave a masterclass in a 30-17 destruction of the New York Jets in Lucas Oil Stadium, Indianapolis. Conducted by Manning, the regular season Most Valuable Player the Indianapolis Colts began as four point favourites. Beginning the season with fourteen straight wins one would have thought that they would be the overwhelming front runner but the New Orleans Saints began the season with their own equally impressive thirteen game winning streak. Commanded by Drew Brees the Saints were the best team in their conference and finally fulfilled their potential by reaching the first Superbowl in franchise history by defeating the Vikings 31-28 in overtime.</p>\n<p>Sun Life stadium in Miami was the setting for this spectacle of American sport. This was the fifth time since it opened for business in 1987 that it has hosted the biggest game in U.S. sports. &lsquo;Superbowl Sunday&rsquo; has long since been one of the most important dates in the North American calendar and it doesn&rsquo;t show any sign of relinquishing that status. Weeks of build up had finally ended when Carrie Underwood led those present in a rendition of the &lsquo;Star Spangled Banner&rsquo;. Enter the two teams. It had been over a decade and a half since he two best teams had battle it out for the Vince Lombardi trophy. This was a truly magnificent occasion, highlighted again by the fact that Emmitt Smith, a Hall of Famer and three time Superbowl winner performed the toin coss. Among all the glitz and glamour you could have been forgiven for thinking that the story began and ended with just the sport. But it didn&rsquo;t. This was bigger than any previous Superbowl. This was the day New Orleans finally re-arrived on the world stage.</p>\n<p>The action began accompanied by the thousands of flash bulbs that have become so common with the opening kick-off when the Colts Pat McAfee kicked the ball 67 yards to the New Orleans 3 yard line. Gathered successfully under little duress Courtney Roby returned the ball 20 yards before he was downed at the 23 to set up the first attack of the game. Both quarterbacks had reached this point in very different circumstances. Drew Brees the Saints maestro, released after a contract dispute with the San Diego Chargers in 2005 had battled back from injuries and lack of form to justify head coach Sean Payton&rsquo;s decision to sign him just two months after he had taken charge of the team. Manning on the other hand has been an institution for over a decade in the NFL. With 10 Pro bowl selections, 7 seasons with 12 or more wins in a row and a Superbowl ring already on his finger from 2007 it was clear who would come out on top if it came down to experience. And that was exactly how it began. The usually unflappable Brees was reckless to begin with, almost searching for the first down on every play and as such the wily, experienced Colts&rsquo; defence forced a hasty three and out receiving possession on their own 27 yard line. Manning&rsquo;s comfort under the spotlight was immediately apparent as he found Dallas Clark with a pass deep right for a gain of 18 yards. With the ball now in midfield it was not a matter of could the Colts score but how many points would they get. Quickly manouvering there way to the Saints 22 yard line Indianapolis were face with a 2nd and 7, ordinarily a routine assignment for a team of such quality. Colts&rsquo; guard Kyle DeVan had other ideas though when he performed a false start incurring a 5 yard penalty, leaving Indy with a 2nd and 12. A seven yard reception from Joseph Addai would have been good enough for a first down originally but left Manning with some work to do and when he failed to convert the 3rd down the ball was placed at the feet of Matt Stover for a 38 yard field goal attempt. The 42 year old struck the ball beautifully, the kick was good, 3-0 Colts. The ball was back in Brees hands, this time on the Saints 26 yard line. Again he looked shaky and a quick three and out was achieved by Indianapolis who now held the ball with 5:12 remaining in the first quarter on their own 4. Cue a Superbowl record tying 96 yard touchdown drive orchestrated by Peyton Manning culminating in a 19 yard catch by Pierre Garcon. Stover kicked the extra point. 10-0 Indy. End of first quarter.</p>\n<p>The game was beginning to follow the script so many had written. The underdog Saints who had fought so bravely to re-emerge after the devastation caused by hurricane Katrina had finally met their match and were being ruthlessly exposed by the professional and efficient Colts. Many who had championed New Orleans&rsquo; cause began to lose faith. Except the players that is. The task they faced was a daunting one however, a comeback from a 10 point deficit would equal the biggest in Superbowl history. Beginning the second quarter at their own 11 yard line Brees drove the Saints to the Indianapolis 22 yard line where he was again foiled but this time instead of being faced with a punt they were within field goal range. Faced with a 46 yard attempt Garrett Hartley had not made a kick from outside 40 years all year. The ball was snapped. The kick again was good, 10-3 Colts, New Orleans on the board. It was vital that they got the score as a comeback from three scores down while not impossible was improbable. The ball was back in Peyton&rsquo;s trusted right arm although this time it wasn&rsquo;t so assured. New Orleans forced an immediate three and out, stopping Indianapolis scoring for the first time and thus regaining possession at their 28 yard line and a chance to level the scores at ten apiece with a touchdown. A six minute drive ensued leaving the Saints confronted with a 3rd and 1 on the Colts&rsquo; goal line. Brees put the ball in the hands of Mike Bell as they drove forward for the six points. No gain. 4th and 1. Surely Sean Payton would take the points and go in to the half time break with a four point deficit? No chance. With the first of what can only be described of a succession of brave calls in the game the Saints head coach decided to go for it. Again a running play was called and the ball was given to Pierre Thomas. He was held up, no gain, no points, New Orleans demoralised. Peyton Manning now had 1:49 and two time-outs to try and add to the 7 point margin separating the sides. Uncharacteristically the Colts went with three straight running plays, failing to secure the first down needed to bring the half time break and gave the Saints a chance to steal some momentum with the ball being placed near the half way line with thirty five seconds to go. It was an opportunity they would not miss as again Hartley showed impressive leg strength with a 44 yard conversion to leave the score at 10-6 to Indianapolis at the interval. The half time entertainment was provided by the legendary British rock band &lsquo;The Who&rsquo;, and it was apt that Pete Townshend displayed his famous &lsquo;Windmill&rsquo; style of guitar playing on stage just as things were beginning to turn around on the pitch.</p>\n<p>The game&rsquo;s defining moment was upon us. Rookie Thomas Morestead lined up to take the kick off which was to be received by the Colts returning team. Not so. In a move that surprised even the kicker himself head coach Sean Payton called for an onside kick which was recovered by the Saints on their 42 yard line giving New Orleans the ball and fresh impetus. A 59 yard drive was finished by 16 yard short pass to Pierre Thomas who broke a couple of tackles before diving into the end zone to give New Orleans the lead. The conversion was successful, 13-10 Saints who were leading for the first time in the match. How would Indianapolis respond? The only way the know how. A 76 yard drive was concluded by a 4 yard Joseph Addai run, Matt Stover adding the extra point, 17-13 Colts and normal order had been resumed. It was up to the Saints to react now. Brees again stormed up the field only to be stopped abruptly on the 29 yard line of Indianapolis causing the field goal unit\n<script src=\"js/tiny_mce/themes/advanced/langs/en.js\" type=\"text/javascript\"></script>\nto enter the field of play once again. Could Garrett Hartley convert a 47 yard attempt and become the first player in Superbowl history to kick three field goals successfully from over 40 yards? Of course he could. 17-16 Colts, with the ball at Indy&rsquo;s 25 yard line the third quarter drew to a close.</p>\n<p>Manning&rsquo;s ball. Fourth quarter of another big game surely it was a formality that he would close it out from here? Again things didn&rsquo;t work according to plan and a 51 yard field goal from Matt Stover was no good giving the Saints advantageous field position and control of the match. Five minutes of playing time had elapsed when Drew Brees found Jermemy Shockey the tall, muscular tight end for a two yard reception and a five point lead. Payton was faced with another big decision. With 5:42 on the clock he could take the 6 point lead and challenge the Colts to outwit his defence and win it with time against them, or in a much riskier move he could attempt a two point conversion and at least secure a chance at overtime for his side. Following the pattern of his earlier moves option two was selected. Brees to Lance Moore. Ball dropped, points lost. Could this be the shift in fortunes that Indianapolis needed? No. Again they were to be foiled as the decision was challenged and referred to the television officials.&nbsp;</p>\n<p>The call was reversed, the Saints now led 24-17 with less than six minutes on the clock. The pressure was on the Colts but who better to deal with it than Peyton Manning a former Superbowl MVP? Things began well for Peyton as he quickly moved his side to within touchdown range just 36 yards from the Saints end zone. Two plays later and he was looking down the barrel at a 3rd and 5 with just over three minutes remaining. Reverting to one of his most trusted plays Manning looked left quickly for Reggie Wayne who had made a quick move to an area which would be enough for the first down if the pass was complete. Enter Tracy Porter the sophomore cornerback who stepped in front and intercepted the ball from the usually impeccable Manning. A 74 yard return with completed kick left New Orleans leading 31-17 with 3:12 on the clock and a mammoth task facing them. Surely this was too much for even Peyton Manning, potentially the greatest quarterback ever. Driving his time to the Saints red zone in under a minute those of a Saints disposition began to look nervously at the clock as the impossible began to look possible.&nbsp;</p>\n<p>With only 3 yards to go Manning threw short right to Pierre Garcon who got tangled with a defender and a penalty was called. Offensive pass interference, 10 yard penalty, 1st and 13. Three quick plays were snuffed out and it was left down to one play, 4th and 5 at the New Orleans goal line. Either this play was successful or the Saints would be World Champions. Manning dropped back and again looked for Reggie Wayne in the end zone, the pass was on target, the ball was in his hands. But he dropped it. The game was over. The Saints win. The Saints win! Five years it had taken for the city to re-emerge. New Orleans was back. Images of thousands on Bourbon Street celebrating their heroes have replaced those of the same street submerged in water. The first time head coach and the quarterback that wasn&rsquo;t wanted had gotten what they craved what the city needed. It was and will be a big boost in the revival of the city as it looks to attract visitors. This writer is proud that the team that he picked to win the Superbowl pre-season has fulfilled its promise and brought a city that was on its knees to the top of tree. This day will never be forgotten in Louisiana and all that remains is one question. Mardi Gras commences in 8 days, interested anyone?</p>", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "664", "Heading": "Payton silences Peyton as Brees blows them away"}