{"Body": "<strong>Ronan Richardson</strong>\n<em>President Correspondent</em>\n\nTuesday, the second day of the race for that all important sabbatical position and the heat has certainly been turned up a notch. Following on from yesterday, there is definitely a feeling in the air of a campaign that is approaching the realms of policy rather than persona. It is clear however, that in student politics that latter rather than the former can form the basis for success or failure. Be that positive or negative, we are not here to comment. However what is clearly evident is that this election in certain regards is a two-horse race.\n\nThree candidates are supposedly in contest with each other however it appears that Dunne and Kelly are somewhat interchangeable concepts. Both have big personalities, both are highly popular with the electorate, both have highly convergent policies. Indeed, this race is taking the form of Tighe versus Dunne-Kelly, a phenomenon that the student body are finding difficult to process. In much of Irish politics outside the walls of our fine institution there is not a wide spectrum of choice when it comes to elections; sadly this is currently mirrored in college politics in this particular contest. On one side we see Tighe purport to maintain policies based on outside reform, reform of the class rep position, and a strong stance on fees. In contrast, today at the hustings on the steps of the dining hall, Dunne and Kelly's campaigns organiser, Darren O'Gorman made incredibly convergent points on internships and the standard of wifi on campus.\n\nTrinity College is not a radical institution. As a group, we are not as quick to get out onto the streets as other Irish universities. The student body in Trinity assumes the appearance of a rather middle-class, apathetic institution. One wonders however, that with such a large middle of the road consensus; will the widespread convergence of both Kelly's and Dunne's middle of the road sentiment cause this majority vote to split? Will it radicalise the student body and incidentally increase support for Tighe? Tighe has received widespread critique from the voters that he is not visible around campus, nor are his supporters. I caught up with Tighe today to again bring this to his attention. He maintains that &ldquo;massive presence isn't all important. There's no need to over burden people with an excess of campaign literature.&rdquo; When asked about his opponents' widespread appeal and popularity, Tighe argues that his more radical views can &ldquo;provide voters with a real alternative.&rdquo; Tighe went on to reiterate yesterday's claim that his policies are not about being a nice guy. &ldquo;We've had nice-guy politics for too long with Bartlett and Trigoub-Rotnem.&rdquo; Unfortunately, as one Senior Freshman student put it, &ldquo;it is difficult to vote for someone, when you don't know who you're voting for.&rdquo;\n\nWhen Dunne was queried on his, and his opponent's convergent policies, Dunne was quick to illustrate that his plans for internships are entirely unique, and his own. Dunne also elaborated that he has also been in communication with organisations such as KPMG who have displayed dismay that Trinity does not boast a successful internship programme on a par with competing universities such as UCD. Following the hustings, Dunne approached me to confirm the above point and also illustrated the contact he'd made with international third level institutions. Indeed, when I queried the difference between his internship policy and that of Kelly, Dunne reminded that his policy was not course integrated. That such integration reduced flexibility, and lowers academic rankings at it has the potential to increase the duration of certain courses, not to mention the supposed widespread academic opposition to such a proposal. At the hustings Dunne also mentioned how he intends to provide extra-curricular training in areas such as first aid which he hopes will increase the employability of Trinity students.\n\nUnfortunately Kelly was unavailable to attend the hustings today, or to comment, due to a family bereavement; however his campaigns organiser illustrated his policies in lieu. Darren O'Gorman reiterated Kelly's widespread public appeal, and his huge notoriety amongst the student body through his participation in numerous college societies and his experience in the Students Union since first year. When quizzed on the similarities between the Dunne-Kelly campaigns, O'Gorman encouraged students that Kelly had already been in contact with IS services regarding use of smart technology on campus, and he encouraged students that Kelly's policy on internships gives students the opportunity to develop a work orientated mindset as part of their education.\n\nTighe, when asked how an almost bankrupt government was to fund third level education without an increase in fees told students of the abundance of gas that was available off Ireland's west coast and how this should be exploited for the benefit of the nation rather than big business.\n\nOn a slightly divergent note, this correspondent wonders the importance of the hustings a all... The main parties there were of campaigners from Ents, Welfare, etc. Interestingly, there was no visible campaign team representing either Tighe or Kelly; though one Kelly campaigner pointed out that it was more important for them to target students where the students were: in the arts block and in the Hamilton.\n\nCampaigns and hustings aside, I spoke to an often forgotten group of students in Trinity. Mature students. A group of Senior Freshman History students illustrated their dismay that younger campaigners seem to forget that they have a voice and a vote too. Like the rest of us, they are students also, with a right to be represented in college. As one students put it, &ldquo;we're not invisible.&rdquo; Yet, most campaigners seem to ignore them. The same student illustrated how she was happy to vote for whatever candidate's campaigner was happy to show her common curtsey and offer her a manifesto. So, as an end-note to all campaigns, it seems a no-brainer not to target this group too in your daily leaflet bomb!", "Imageurl": "8319", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "8156", "Heading": "Ronan Richardson's President Blog: Day 2"}