{"Body": "First up for a grilling is Ryan Bartlett, who is running for SU President.\n\nFirstly, a process note: Ryan has not had advance notice of any of these questions. I will not be giving any of the candidates advance notice. I have text Ryan out of courtesy to let him know I'm doing this. I will attempt to contact each candidate before I post questions to them. Please be patient with candidates in responding. I know from having run in SU elections that 18 hour days are commonplace and it can be hard to find time for eating and sleeping, never mind responding to that bloody nuisance Harmon. Anyhow, here goes:\n\nQ1: You certainly have a lot of experience of SU politics and you, quite legitimately, argue that this stands you in good stead to successfully represent the students of Trinity. Can you give us up to three specific examples of where your lobbying or influence has delivered results in the past?\n\nQ2: I like the section of your manifesto on SU transparency, especially since it was something I emphasised in my campaign last year (imitation is the sincerest form of flattery ;). Can you provide further details of what SU documents you would envisage publishing as part of this transparency drive. Would it include publishing the SU accounts online? What about your salary and expenses?\n\nQ3: I agree with your principle that everyone should have the opportunity to access third level education. Can you categorically say what your view is on the funding of third level education? What is your view on fees, loans systems and graduate taxes? What is your view on the proposals in the Hunt Report?\n\nQ4: You mention a plan you have to present to College to allow students make full use of the 24 hour campus services. Can you present it to us?\n\nQ5: Part of your 'Bartlett's Checklist' is a promise to make it easier to go on Erasmus. Can you expand on how you would do that?", "Imageurl": "First up for a grilling is Ryan Bartlett, who is running for SU President.\n\nFirstly, a process note: Ryan has not had advance notice of any of these questions. I will not be giving any of the candidates advance notice. I have text Ryan out of courtesy to let him know I'm doing this. I will attempt to contact each candidate before I post questions to them. Please be patient with candidates in responding. I know from having run in SU elections that 18 hour days are commonplace and it can be hard to find time for eating and sleeping, never mind responding to that bloody nuisance Harmon. Anyhow, here goes:\n\nQ1: You certainly have a lot of experience of SU politics and you, quite legitimately, argue that this stands you in good stead to successfully represent the students of Trinity. Can you give us up to three specific examples of where your lobbying or influence has delivered results in the past?\n\nQ2: I like the section of your manifesto on SU transparency, especially since it was something I emphasised in my campaign last year (imitation is the sincerest form of flattery ;). Can you provide further details of what SU documents you would envisage publishing as part of this transparency drive. Would it include publishing the SU accounts online? What about your salary and expenses?\n\nQ3: I agree with your principle that everyone should have the opportunity to access third level education. Can you categorically say what your view is on the funding of third level education? What is your view on fees, loans systems and graduate taxes? What is your view on the proposals in the Hunt Report?\n\nQ4: You mention a plan you have to present to College to allow students make full use of the 24 hour campus services. Can you present it to us?\n\nQ5: Part of your 'Bartlett's Checklist' is a promise to make it easier to go on Erasmus. Can you expand on how you would do that?", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "960", "Heading": "Five questions - Ryan Bartlett (President)"}