{"Body": "<strong>Conor Kenny</strong>\n<em>Staff Writer</em>\n\n25-year-old James Tynan from Thurles is currently fighting for his life in South Tipperary General Hospital. Which part of that sentence is especially unsettling? There is obviously nothing satiating about any aspect of it, but the first three words stand out for particular poignancy. For a man in his mid-twenties to be in such a serious condition is an unbearably tragic thing indeed. And yet the most unnerving piece of the story hasn&rsquo;t even been mentioned so far in this article. The reason James&rsquo; health is in such a critical state is not for any self-inflicted act of stupidity or even some sort of terminal illness, as appalling as both of those scenarios would be. No, Mr. Tynan is lying there in hospital because of a violent, unprovoked attack by a fellow human being. After leaving the nightclub of the Hayes Hotel in Thurles, and entering Liberty Square, he was struck by a complete stranger with a single yet potent blow, before falling to the ground and smashing his head off the concrete.\n\nYou could well argue that this kind of thing goes on all the time, and is entirely commonplace. However, this admittedly accurate observation would only have any weight in relevance if it were to be expounded upon to the argument that &ldquo;things have, and always will be this way&rdquo;. If you want to make this point with a straight face, then you are of course entitled to, but please don&rsquo;t begrudge the rest of us who can&rsquo;t accept that from feeling aggrieved.\n\nMost people have been punched at some point in a nightclub, the most common motive for attack being an accidental nudge on the dance floor, something which is rather unavoidable in a dark cramped room full of drunk people. But if this kind of behavior is controllable within the confines of a club, with endless monitory gazes across the room from battle-hardened bouncers, then it is near chaos outside. A friend of mine was attacked walking out of Gorbys nightclub in Cork last year with a blow to the side of his head, something which could have caused serious injury had the punch not been so feeble. What on earth kind of justification these thugs think they have for preying on innocent victims in this manner must go beyond any logic befitting a human. The common mugger at least has a rational logic of sorts, but is hard to think of a more apt description for what this other brand of brutes practice than &lsquo;sadism&rsquo;. To inflict pain on someone for the sake of humour is a nauseating thought indeed. Doubtless, scores of haranguers will fill the airwaves of Joe Duffy with moral outrage over the evils of alcohol. To blame such an act on drink is not only lazy, but obscene, and also a partial absolution for the sins of these louts.\n\nDetectives in Tipperary are questioning a 22-year-old man from the area about the rancorous assault. CCTV footage taken in the vicinity of where the incident occurred is being studied by the Gardai, who will doubtless use the footage as part of their investigation. James&rsquo; family, and his girlfriend Fiona, are currently keeping him company at his bedside. Many of his friends deluged his Facebook page with messages yesterday, willing him to get better. For families in their hour of need, tributes of this ilk are never unsolicited.\n\nSuperintendent Pat Lordan has called for witnesses to come forward, but even if this goon is reprimanded, it will provide little relief to the Tynan family. James remains in a critical condition, and as of this morning is still fighting for his life.\u00a0You may care to imagine how much life has been beaten out of such a victim, in order to satisfy the sadistic thirst of his attacker.\u00a0But this is what makes an incident like this all the more enraging. Unlike young men and women who fall victim to tragic accidents, this occurred as the result of something that was premeditated; something that was both evil in thought and application. The ignorant coward responsible almost certainly does not even feel remorse at having put the life of young man in the balance. A horror show of such proportions really does make one question the future of humanity.", "Imageurl": "8612", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "8611", "Heading": "Young Blood"}