{"Body": "<!-- p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 9.0px 'Utopia Std'} span.s1 {letter-spacing: -0.1px} -->By Darragh Haugh\n\nWe live in a society where taste for cigarettes is tantamount to a political sympathy for the Nazi party. Why should we be ashamed of a personal habit when we are fully aware of the risks? Most non smokers would point to the awful smell and long term health problems, but the smell of day old MacDonald&rsquo;s and booze is a far worse assault on the sense&rsquo;s, not to mention the consequences for one&rsquo;s health. Where&rsquo;s the national anti fat smelly party animal campaign? Unlike these other vices the joy of smoking is mostly psychological and not as some people would argue a physiological need.\n\nFirstly smoking can be an extremely important part of self expression. As children we lived entirely joyful carefree existence yet as we age, enjoyment often takes a backseat to the work off the day or another unnecessary uses of effort. Smoking is the easiest way as recapturing this mindset as it provides an excuse to break from work and to simply enjoy a moment of carefree pleasure. In addition to this smoking is the most readily available form of reward today. Since the pat on the back we really deserve rarely shows half as much as it&rsquo;s needed smoking acts as a quick personal treat for finishing the essay, attending a lecture or a hard day&rsquo;s work. Beyond that it can be a quite means of celebration whether it&rsquo;s after getting the exam scores you wanted or its after having a romantic moment with the girl you always had a thing for, cigarettes are your own personal filtered champagne bottle just waiting to be popped. Beyond acting as a reward system sometimes cigarettes can prolong an already great experience like smoking after a good meal, almost like an extra course, or while drinking as if adding icing to your cake.\n\nThen there&rsquo;s the sheer beauty of having the cigarette itself. The ethereal intangible floating nature of the smoke has always been captivating. It&rsquo;s the same reason you always catch people looking at their breath on a particularly cold day. Something about it simply catches both your eye and imagination. The heat in your chest is almost instant and soon spreads to the rest of your body acting like an extra layer of clothing. It&rsquo;s as if the cigarette is alive. Its style is undeniable, from James Dean to Mad Men it&rsquo;s become a massive part of popular culture. The Fashion Spot alone has a forum thread 237 pages long filled with images of models smoking. The morality of this has been argued but at the end of the day smoking when done well can be a very attractive act. This goes hand in hand which smoking&rsquo;s social aspect.\n\nSmoking like drinking the two most popular ways people use to socialise and make new friends and in this regard smoking is defiantly the superior as the friend you make drunk is rarely the person you meet in the harsh light of sobriety. Finding people of a similar mindset is simple as many of Trinity&rsquo;s social scenes even claim their particular smoking areas. The society and SU members camp outside house 6 while the hipster scene is found outside the ground floor entrance to the Arts block, the academic smoker lives outside the main entrances to the library and twenty four hour study room while the chronic socialisers and time killers have found a home on the Arts block ramp. Smoking is the easiest way of forming a bound with a stranger as instantly you can share a common interest while trying to kill some time.\n\nThis tends to mean some of the best times you&rsquo;ve had happen while smoking which in turns leads to smoking acting as a photo album, almost instantly taking you back to the most memorable moments of the last few years. Its proven that smells are the most effective way of accessing old memories and as non smokers will always remind us that smoking defiantly has a strong scent which makes it particularly good at transporting us back to that night out or often the morning after. Most of my reminiscing is done over a solitary cigarette further allowing me to relax after that killer all night essay marathon.\n\nI&rsquo;m not saying smoking is for everyone, my black and pink spotted lungs are evidence of this. The health problems aside, due to the staggering large vat on smokes I&rsquo;m well on my way to bailing this country out without any help from the I.M.F. and many of you won&rsquo;t be convinced of by my argument thus reinforcing my position as a social pariah to the non smoking community, however smoking is a much a habit as it is a part of my personality. I accept that smoking my on occasion hurts my lungs but to give it up would break my heart. Please think about that the next time you&rsquo;re about to pass judgement on someone for smoking.", "Imageurl": "<!-- p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 9.0px 'Utopia Std'} span.s1 {letter-spacing: -0.1px} -->By Darragh Haugh\n\nWe live in a society where taste for cigarettes is tantamount to a political sympathy for the Nazi party. Why should we be ashamed of a personal habit when we are fully aware of the risks? Most non smokers would point to the awful smell and long term health problems, but the smell of day old MacDonald&rsquo;s and booze is a far worse assault on the sense&rsquo;s, not to mention the consequences for one&rsquo;s health. Where&rsquo;s the national anti fat smelly party animal campaign? Unlike these other vices the joy of smoking is mostly psychological and not as some people would argue a physiological need.\n\nFirstly smoking can be an extremely important part of self expression. As children we lived entirely joyful carefree existence yet as we age, enjoyment often takes a backseat to the work off the day or another unnecessary uses of effort. Smoking is the easiest way as recapturing this mindset as it provides an excuse to break from work and to simply enjoy a moment of carefree pleasure. In addition to this smoking is the most readily available form of reward today. Since the pat on the back we really deserve rarely shows half as much as it&rsquo;s needed smoking acts as a quick personal treat for finishing the essay, attending a lecture or a hard day&rsquo;s work. Beyond that it can be a quite means of celebration whether it&rsquo;s after getting the exam scores you wanted or its after having a romantic moment with the girl you always had a thing for, cigarettes are your own personal filtered champagne bottle just waiting to be popped. Beyond acting as a reward system sometimes cigarettes can prolong an already great experience like smoking after a good meal, almost like an extra course, or while drinking as if adding icing to your cake.\n\nThen there&rsquo;s the sheer beauty of having the cigarette itself. The ethereal intangible floating nature of the smoke has always been captivating. It&rsquo;s the same reason you always catch people looking at their breath on a particularly cold day. Something about it simply catches both your eye and imagination. The heat in your chest is almost instant and soon spreads to the rest of your body acting like an extra layer of clothing. It&rsquo;s as if the cigarette is alive. Its style is undeniable, from James Dean to Mad Men it&rsquo;s become a massive part of popular culture. The Fashion Spot alone has a forum thread 237 pages long filled with images of models smoking. The morality of this has been argued but at the end of the day smoking when done well can be a very attractive act. This goes hand in hand which smoking&rsquo;s social aspect.\n\nSmoking like drinking the two most popular ways people use to socialise and make new friends and in this regard smoking is defiantly the superior as the friend you make drunk is rarely the person you meet in the harsh light of sobriety. Finding people of a similar mindset is simple as many of Trinity&rsquo;s social scenes even claim their particular smoking areas. The society and SU members camp outside house 6 while the hipster scene is found outside the ground floor entrance to the Arts block, the academic smoker lives outside the main entrances to the library and twenty four hour study room while the chronic socialisers and time killers have found a home on the Arts block ramp. Smoking is the easiest way of forming a bound with a stranger as instantly you can share a common interest while trying to kill some time.\n\nThis tends to mean some of the best times you&rsquo;ve had happen while smoking which in turns leads to smoking acting as a photo album, almost instantly taking you back to the most memorable moments of the last few years. Its proven that smells are the most effective way of accessing old memories and as non smokers will always remind us that smoking defiantly has a strong scent which makes it particularly good at transporting us back to that night out or often the morning after. Most of my reminiscing is done over a solitary cigarette further allowing me to relax after that killer all night essay marathon.\n\nI&rsquo;m not saying smoking is for everyone, my black and pink spotted lungs are evidence of this. The health problems aside, due to the staggering large vat on smokes I&rsquo;m well on my way to bailing this country out without any help from the I.M.F. and many of you won&rsquo;t be convinced of by my argument thus reinforcing my position as a social pariah to the non smoking community, however smoking is a much a habit as it is a part of my personality. I accept that smoking my on occasion hurts my lungs but to give it up would break my heart. Please think about that the next time you&rsquo;re about to pass judgement on someone for smoking.", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "157", "Heading": "Sympathy for Smokers"}