{"Body": "Ronan Costello\n\nGary Redmond was re-elected as President of USI at USI Congress last Monday. After receiving a warm reception by Congress delegates when he took the stage in the hustings, it was no surprise when the ex-UCDSU President received 92% of the vote, in a straight yes/no plebiscite. TCDSU Education Officer, Jen Fox, was less fortunate however, narrowly losing a similar yes/no plebiscite in her run at USI Education Officer.\n\nThe mood at Congress, held in the four-star Dunboyne Castle Hotel, could only be described as celebratory, with the Officer Board being hailed as the most successful in USI&rsquo;s history. Words like &ldquo;revolutionised&rdquo; and &ldquo;amazing&rdquo; were frequently used to describe the performance of those who had been elected this time last year to lead an organisation which had been previously decried as occasionally shambolic in its organisation. Personality clashes and egos had gone some way to creating an image of a dysfunctional outfit, used by career politicians to launch careers on the national stage.\n\nWhile some had levelled similar allegations at Redmond, most acknowledged his impressive work rate and the fact that USI had operated effectively as a lobbying organisation under his watch - staving off a rise in the registration fee to the much-touted figure of &euro;3000 and ensuring the Student Support Bill was passed into law before the previous government succumbed to electoral annihilation.\n\nThe Trinity delegation arrived to Congress expecting a better welcome than that received. Placed towards the back of the conference hall, and with many other delegations, including UCD, pledged to oppose TCDSU Education Officer Jen Fox&rsquo;s candidacy for USI Education Officer, the &ldquo;Trinity versus everyone else&rdquo; mentality set in with the more paranoid members of the delegation. It didn&rsquo;t help that most major delegations, and some smaller ones, were sporting their own t-shirts to emphasise the solidarity between their respective delegates while Trinity remained plain-clothed.\n\nThe more sartorially-polished President of National Union of Students UK Aaron Porter was the first guest speaker to address the group. Having endured a year of massive defeats at the hands of the Tory/Lib Dem coalition, not least the rise in standard tuition fees from &euro;3000 to &euro;9000, Porter has been the subject of massive criticism from left-leaning student groups in the UK. He recently decided not to seek re-election, stating that NUSUK needed a new face at the helm if it was to leave the fees issue behind it. Another student leader who has been the subject of jibes of careerism, Porter spoke eloquently about the unrealistic expectations of the militant left and the outdated tactics they had used when raiding Tory HQ which, he claimed, had done nothing but give Lib Dem MPs political cover when voting for the Tory-led fee increases. Eloquent and assured, Porter&rsquo;s performance set a high standard for the USI Officers who followed him to deliver their annual officer reports.\n\nNormally the opportunity for delegates to grill officers on their performance, this report session turned out to be a love-in between regional sabbats and their superiors in USI HQ. Not only were no particularly taxing questions asked, but every question was prefaced with back-slapping congratulations for being &ldquo;such a great guy&rdquo;. Only one hard question was asked in the whole session, directed to the LGBT Rights Officer, who was asked if she thought that her position needed to be designated as full-time. Knowing it would be controversial to say yes, she relented and admitted she could fulfil her duties by working on a part-time basis.\n\nOnce the reports were completed, the room&rsquo;s atmosphere became tense. Time for hustings. For TCD, Jen Fox prepared to make her case against the Re-Open Nominations vote. While the option to re-run the election rather than vote in the nominated candidate is never a serious contender in Trinity elections, at USI Congress candidates who run unopposed are frequently rejected. One of the reasons for this is that quite a few of the larger delegations such as UCDSU and DITSU vote as a block, based on a mandate received after the various candidates have made their cases at their respective Councils. Fox knew that UCD had voted to oppose her candidacy, in part as a rebuke to members of the TCDSU Executive having canvassed against the welfare candidacy of UCD&rsquo;s Scott Ahearn. UCCSU had also decided to go against Fox, reflecting their generally more left-wing stance which stands at odds with Fox&rsquo;s approach to student issues.\nSo it was then, that Fox took to the stage, with some of the leading delegations staring her down with folded arms. Swing voters could still have been persuaded by a particularly strong stump speech but Fox seemed nervous, her demeanour belying her normally confident public speaking.\n\nFor the other positions, it seemed like the only really contested race was between current USI Education Officer Colm Murphy and NUIMSU President Aengus \u00d3 Maol\u00e1in for the position of Deputy President. Murphy was judged to have acquitted himself well this year, but gave a far more understated speech than \u00d3 Maol\u00e1in who spoke about how Maynooth SU had transformed under his watch from a campus joke to an effective and professional organisation.\nWhen the results were announced on Monday, both Fox and \u00d3 Maol\u00e1in were left with head in hands - the silence in the room excruciating when it was announced that Congress had turned against Fox. Speaking about her defeat Fox said, &ldquo;it&rsquo;s horrendous that four out of the five USI officers are from UCD. It gives USI a massive bias and a very limited viewpoint.&rdquo; Fox said that she was giving herself a week to think about her next move, but that she was unlikely to contest the vacant position at USI&rsquo;s National Council. Early last Sunday morning a Facebook page was set up to encourage the current UCCSU President Keith O&rsquo;Brien to nominate himself for Education Officer at USI National Council. O&rsquo;Brien had lost his bid at re-election only a few days prior to Congress&rsquo;s beginning and some have noted the similarities between O&rsquo;Brien&rsquo;s Presidential campaign page and the current USI campaign page.\n\nThe elections over, an entire programme of motions had still to be debated. Fist-time Congress attendees would be forgiven for expecting these to be controversial, topical issues on which USI needed to take a stance. Instead, what we got were mind-numbingly obvious votes on whether USI should support a loan scheme for graduates or whether USI should make the nurses&rsquo; pay campaign one of its national priorities. On more than one occasion it felt like delegates were speaking just to be heard. None more so than a particular DITSU delegate who set up camp on stage for the duration of the congress.\n\nWhile Steph Fleming and Darren O&rsquo;Gorman spoke well on TCDSU&rsquo;s behalf, O&rsquo;Gorman&rsquo;s contribution was restricted to LGBT issues and Fleming offered opinions on Welfare motions. No TCDSU delegates spoke on national issues bar Irish Language Officer Peadar de Bl\u00fait whose input was restricted to motions related to the Irish language. Trinity lacked the same punch as other colleges whose Presidents proved to be excellent speakers, most notably UCDSU, UCCSU, NUIMSU and DITSU. This was due in no small part to the fact that Nikolai Trigoub-Rotnem spent much of Monday ill with food poisoning. This notwithstanding, Trinity&rsquo;s lack of a statesman-like President was noticeable, and only added to what was a disappointing Congress for &ldquo;Ireland&rsquo;s premier University&rdquo;.", "Imageurl": "Ronan Costello\n\nGary Redmond was re-elected as President of USI at USI Congress last Monday. After receiving a warm reception by Congress delegates when he took the stage in the hustings, it was no surprise when the ex-UCDSU President received 92% of the vote, in a straight yes/no plebiscite. TCDSU Education Officer, Jen Fox, was less fortunate however, narrowly losing a similar yes/no plebiscite in her run at USI Education Officer.\n\nThe mood at Congress, held in the four-star Dunboyne Castle Hotel, could only be described as celebratory, with the Officer Board being hailed as the most successful in USI&rsquo;s history. Words like &ldquo;revolutionised&rdquo; and &ldquo;amazing&rdquo; were frequently used to describe the performance of those who had been elected this time last year to lead an organisation which had been previously decried as occasionally shambolic in its organisation. Personality clashes and egos had gone some way to creating an image of a dysfunctional outfit, used by career politicians to launch careers on the national stage.\n\nWhile some had levelled similar allegations at Redmond, most acknowledged his impressive work rate and the fact that USI had operated effectively as a lobbying organisation under his watch - staving off a rise in the registration fee to the much-touted figure of &euro;3000 and ensuring the Student Support Bill was passed into law before the previous government succumbed to electoral annihilation.\n\nThe Trinity delegation arrived to Congress expecting a better welcome than that received. Placed towards the back of the conference hall, and with many other delegations, including UCD, pledged to oppose TCDSU Education Officer Jen Fox&rsquo;s candidacy for USI Education Officer, the &ldquo;Trinity versus everyone else&rdquo; mentality set in with the more paranoid members of the delegation. It didn&rsquo;t help that most major delegations, and some smaller ones, were sporting their own t-shirts to emphasise the solidarity between their respective delegates while Trinity remained plain-clothed.\n\nThe more sartorially-polished President of National Union of Students UK Aaron Porter was the first guest speaker to address the group. Having endured a year of massive defeats at the hands of the Tory/Lib Dem coalition, not least the rise in standard tuition fees from &euro;3000 to &euro;9000, Porter has been the subject of massive criticism from left-leaning student groups in the UK. He recently decided not to seek re-election, stating that NUSUK needed a new face at the helm if it was to leave the fees issue behind it. Another student leader who has been the subject of jibes of careerism, Porter spoke eloquently about the unrealistic expectations of the militant left and the outdated tactics they had used when raiding Tory HQ which, he claimed, had done nothing but give Lib Dem MPs political cover when voting for the Tory-led fee increases. Eloquent and assured, Porter&rsquo;s performance set a high standard for the USI Officers who followed him to deliver their annual officer reports.\n\nNormally the opportunity for delegates to grill officers on their performance, this report session turned out to be a love-in between regional sabbats and their superiors in USI HQ. Not only were no particularly taxing questions asked, but every question was prefaced with back-slapping congratulations for being &ldquo;such a great guy&rdquo;. Only one hard question was asked in the whole session, directed to the LGBT Rights Officer, who was asked if she thought that her position needed to be designated as full-time. Knowing it would be controversial to say yes, she relented and admitted she could fulfil her duties by working on a part-time basis.\n\nOnce the reports were completed, the room&rsquo;s atmosphere became tense. Time for hustings. For TCD, Jen Fox prepared to make her case against the Re-Open Nominations vote. While the option to re-run the election rather than vote in the nominated candidate is never a serious contender in Trinity elections, at USI Congress candidates who run unopposed are frequently rejected. One of the reasons for this is that quite a few of the larger delegations such as UCDSU and DITSU vote as a block, based on a mandate received after the various candidates have made their cases at their respective Councils. Fox knew that UCD had voted to oppose her candidacy, in part as a rebuke to members of the TCDSU Executive having canvassed against the welfare candidacy of UCD&rsquo;s Scott Ahearn. UCCSU had also decided to go against Fox, reflecting their generally more left-wing stance which stands at odds with Fox&rsquo;s approach to student issues.\nSo it was then, that Fox took to the stage, with some of the leading delegations staring her down with folded arms. Swing voters could still have been persuaded by a particularly strong stump speech but Fox seemed nervous, her demeanour belying her normally confident public speaking.\n\nFor the other positions, it seemed like the only really contested race was between current USI Education Officer Colm Murphy and NUIMSU President Aengus \u00d3 Maol\u00e1in for the position of Deputy President. Murphy was judged to have acquitted himself well this year, but gave a far more understated speech than \u00d3 Maol\u00e1in who spoke about how Maynooth SU had transformed under his watch from a campus joke to an effective and professional organisation.\nWhen the results were announced on Monday, both Fox and \u00d3 Maol\u00e1in were left with head in hands - the silence in the room excruciating when it was announced that Congress had turned against Fox. Speaking about her defeat Fox said, &ldquo;it&rsquo;s horrendous that four out of the five USI officers are from UCD. It gives USI a massive bias and a very limited viewpoint.&rdquo; Fox said that she was giving herself a week to think about her next move, but that she was unlikely to contest the vacant position at USI&rsquo;s National Council. Early last Sunday morning a Facebook page was set up to encourage the current UCCSU President Keith O&rsquo;Brien to nominate himself for Education Officer at USI National Council. O&rsquo;Brien had lost his bid at re-election only a few days prior to Congress&rsquo;s beginning and some have noted the similarities between O&rsquo;Brien&rsquo;s Presidential campaign page and the current USI campaign page.\n\nThe elections over, an entire programme of motions had still to be debated. Fist-time Congress attendees would be forgiven for expecting these to be controversial, topical issues on which USI needed to take a stance. Instead, what we got were mind-numbingly obvious votes on whether USI should support a loan scheme for graduates or whether USI should make the nurses&rsquo; pay campaign one of its national priorities. On more than one occasion it felt like delegates were speaking just to be heard. None more so than a particular DITSU delegate who set up camp on stage for the duration of the congress.\n\nWhile Steph Fleming and Darren O&rsquo;Gorman spoke well on TCDSU&rsquo;s behalf, O&rsquo;Gorman&rsquo;s contribution was restricted to LGBT issues and Fleming offered opinions on Welfare motions. No TCDSU delegates spoke on national issues bar Irish Language Officer Peadar de Bl\u00fait whose input was restricted to motions related to the Irish language. Trinity lacked the same punch as other colleges whose Presidents proved to be excellent speakers, most notably UCDSU, UCCSU, NUIMSU and DITSU. This was due in no small part to the fact that Nikolai Trigoub-Rotnem spent much of Monday ill with food poisoning. This notwithstanding, Trinity&rsquo;s lack of a statesman-like President was noticeable, and only added to what was a disappointing Congress for &ldquo;Ireland&rsquo;s premier University&rdquo;.", "Thumb_nail": "http://universitytimes.ie/wp-content/uploads/2013/utlogo.jpg", "ID": "2419", "Heading": "Redmond re-elected, Fox rejected"}